**Pair Coding**



## What is pair coding?
The method known as pair programming (in Spanish, pair programming) is used mainly in agile software development and, more specifically, in extreme programming (XP). The programming pair specifies that there are always two people working on code at the same time and that they sit together as much as possible. One is in charge of writing the code and the other of monitoring in real time. At the same time, they are constantly exchanging impressions: they discuss problems, find solutions and develop creative ideas.

These two workers are typically assigned different roles: the programmer who has been assigned the pilot role is in charge of writing the code. The programmer who has been assigned the copilot role is in charge of monitoring that code. One of the rules of the scheduling pair states that these two roles are exchanged regularly (at short intervals). In this way, a possible hierarchical gap is avoided: equality between both workers is promoted and a fluid exchange of roles is achieved.

In addition, ideally the workspace is also tailored to the specific requirements of the programming pair. Each worker must have their own mouse, keyboard and screen, which will always show the same information as the colleague's.

Somewhat less common is the method called remote peer programming. In this case, the programmers do not sit together, but are located in completely different places. For this method to work, you must have special solutions. Even despite the distance, colleagues must have a direct line of communication and must be able to access the code and view modifications in real time.

## What is the advantage of working in pair coding?
Working in pairs within the framework of a project, whether it is scheduling or otherwise, has many advantages. In general, four eyes see much more than just two - the pair programming method minimizes the risk of errors. While one person writes the code, the other visualizes it and concentrates only on finding errors. In general, it is quite difficult for us to detect the errors themselves. It is usually our colleagues who detect them most quickly.

Another of the great advantages derived from communication is the constant development of creativity: the constant exchange that takes place between the pair of programmers causes ideas that might not be had if the work were individual. Intercom also ensures that problems can be better solved in less time. Well, while a person who works alone may be satisfied with the first option that seems best to him, the people involved in pair programming must always justify their decisions to the rest. It is possible that they have another perception of the problem and are not satisfied with the solution that is proposed to them. This generates a debate in which new ideas are usually presented that lead to a much better code.

Good code is also concise code: experience dictates that source text generated by pair programming tends to be shorter in layout and therefore more efficient. This allows a later saving in resources in case of maintenance and adaptation.

As we have already mentioned, this technique can also be used to allow more experienced workers to share their knowledge with their younger colleagues. This not only takes advantage of the essential advantage of pair programming, which is the generation of high-quality code, but can also be used simultaneously for training purposes.

However, this is all very time consuming: two programmers work together much faster than one alone, but no more than two programmers working separately. This means that this method causes projects to progress more slowly or require more staff, which in turn increases costs. Supporters of pair programming estimate that these overtime pay off as the generated code contains fewer errors, is better structured overall, and requires much less maintenance.





## References
https://www.ionos.mx/digitalguide/paginas-web/desarrollo-web/pair-programming/
